## Introduction
Welcome to my "Getting and Cleaning Data" Coursera project!

The following files are available for you, the grader, in my github repo:

* README.md (this file)
* CodeBook.md
* run_analysis.R


## README.md
This README.md file is the top-level reference for this project.


## CodeBook.md
The CodeBook.md file contains information about the data: a brief description
of the raw data and where it came from, how I decided on which features of the
raw data to select for further processing into my tidy data set, a description
of my rationale for naming the variables in my tidy data set, and a plain-
English description of what each variable in the tidy data set is.


## run_analysis.R
The run_analysis.R file is my R script for taking the raw data and processing
it into tidy data. It is self-contained and fully-commented. No manual steps
are required. run_analysis.R will even download the raw data from the internet
if it is not already present on the local disk.

The run_analysis.R script performs the following operations to transform the raw
data into tidy data (into a file named "tidy.data"):

1. Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
2. Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. 
3. Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set.
4. Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names. 
5. Creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each
   activity and each subject. 


## tidy.txt
The tidy.txt file is not technically available to you in the github repo, but
it can be generated by running the run_analysis.R script. To load this file
into an R session, after running run_analysis.R, type the following:

```
  tidyData <- read.table(reportFile, header=TRUE)
```

For convenience the following lines are left as comments at the end of the
run_analysis.R script for loading the tidy.txt file into R and showing the
file contents:

```
  # As a test, read in a data frame
  #tidyData <- read.table(reportFile, header=TRUE)

  # Show the tidy data file to the person running this script
  #file.show(reportFile, header = reportFile)
```

Feel free to uncomment these and run the script to try it out!



Best Regards and Happy Coding,

Joe Felchlin